h1. thumby 

A thumbnail generator as web service.

Supports
- pdf
- still images

h1. Requirements

1. Java 8
2. Typesafe Activator

bc.. cd /tmp
wget http://downloads.typesafe.com/typesafe-activator/1.3.2/typesafe-activator-1.3.2-minimal.zip
unzip typesafe-activator-1.3.2-minimal.zip
sudo mv activator-1.3.2-minimal /opt

h1. Run

bc.. cd /tmp
git clone https://github.com/hbz/thumby
cd thumby
/opt/activator-1.3.2-minimal/activator run

p. Go to http://localhost:9000/mythumby

h2. Manual Test

bc. curl -XGET http://localhost:9000/mythumby?url=https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/2262780036/jan_128_400x400.jpg&size=200

that's all! Repeating requests will be answered with a cached version using 'url' and 'size' as cache address.

h1. Install on Ubuntu

bc.. 
cd /tmp/thumby
/opt/activator-1.3.2-minimal/activator dist
cp target/universal/thumby-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.zip  /tmp
cd /tmp
unzip thumby-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.zip
mv thumby-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT /opt/thumby

p. edit /opt/thumby/conf/application.conf

bc.. http.path="/mythumby"
application.context="/mythumby"
#Provide a comma separated list of servers. Thumby will not access files on any other servers. 
thumby.whitelist="localhost,127.0.0.1"

p. edit startscript

bc.. sudo cp /tmp/thumby/install/thumby.tmpl /etc/init.d/thumby
sudo chmod u+x /etc/init.d/thumby
sudo editor /etc/init.d/thumby

p. set the following vars

bc.. JAVA_HOME=/opt/java
HOME="/opt/thumby"
USER="user to run thumby"
GROUP="user to run thumby"
SECRET=`uuidgen` # generate a secret e.g. using uuidgen
PORT=9000

p. include into system start and shutdown

bc.. sudo update-rc.d thumby defaults 99 20

p. start

bc.. sudo service thumby start

h1. License

GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 
Version 3, 19 November 2007